A group of UK university students are demanding partial refunds of their university fees, due to the coronavirus restrictions which have severely limited their university experience. This comes at a time when over 2,600 students and staff in 50 UK universities have confirmed cases of Covid-19. Thousands of students have been told to self-isolate, while face-to-face lessons have been replaced by online lectures. The group, Refund Us Now, has been asking for a 15% cash refund for all students who have been told lies and forced to comply with strict rules by their universities. The fifteen percent corresponds to the amount by which online learning was found to be less effective than in-person teaching, according to one international study.
At the beginning of the term, students were encouraged to attend campus. They were promised a safe university experience involving a blend of online and face-to-face teaching. Instead, many have been forced to stay inside halls of residence, socialising only with the students with whom they share kitchen and bathroom facilities. Many of them feel they have been abandoned and mistreated. At Manchester Metropolitan University, where 1,700 students in two accommodation blocks were told to self-isolate after more than 120 tested positive, there are reports of security guards stopping students from leaving their halls, even when they were no longer required to self-isolate. Meanwhile, students at Leeds University were left without cleaning supplies or information about how to buy food or take out rubbish. They were also prevented from using laundry services and instead were told to buy more clothes or wash their clothes in the sink. Many students question why they were encouraged to return to university at all, given the availability of online learning. Outbreaks at universities were, they say, inevitable, and students shouldn’t have been encouraged to attend in person.
University staff, meanwhile, have their own concerns. Staff at Northumbria University, for example, want more Covid-19 testing and more online teaching to allow for thorough cleaning and support teaching to take place and protect the health of themselves and their families.
They have cause for concern. Covid-19 can spread very easily in student accommodation. It’s also very hard to monitor and enforce students’ activities there, unlike in the bars and restaurants that they are forbidden to visit. Despite hefty fines for breaking government rules of remaining in household groups, some students are organising parties for 20-25 people. The students who have tested positive for the virus feel most free to socialise with others who test positive. Some students feel they are better off catching the disease while they are among other young, healthy people and away from more vulnerable family members. Other students, however, keep to the rules. They use their isolation to bond with housemates or entertain themselves online. But inevitably, some are feeling mental and emotional strain, as well as anger and frustration over their less-than-perfect university experience.
Will they get a refund? There are calls for students to get money back if the quality of their learning is severely impacted by the new conditions. However, students receiving adequate online learning and access to appropriate library and research facilities are ineligible. Meanwhile, students who have been told to self-isolate at short notice in student accommodation are receiving food, essential items and some financial assistance. It seems that students will have to accept their unfortunate university experience as just another unwelcome impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.
Courtesy and hospitality are important when doing business in Egypt. The host of a business meeting will usually offer tea or a small snack before commencing. It’s polite to refuse the first offer, but once the host insists, the guest should then accept.
Alcohol is legal, but should be avoided until visitors know their Egyptian colleague’s attitude towards drinking, and, if acceptable, should be drunk in moderation. It is not considered suitable for women to over-indulge in alcohol. If invited to a business lunch, expect food to be lavish and plentiful.
Throughout the Arab world, it is considered bad manners either to display anger or to openly criticize another person in public. Tact and diplomacy are always required. In social life, punctuality is almost laughable. For business, visitors should be on time but expect locals to be often late, and do not take offence. Men should not offer to shake a woman’s hand, and vice versa, unless clearly invited to do so. Men and women should dress smartly for business meetings – suits and tie for men; suit for women or smart trousers/skirt/jacket – and always dress modestly. Shoulders and knees should never be shown.
Economy:
On taking power in 1970, Anwar al-Sadat introduced a policy of infitah (openness) towards investment. Egypt’s economy underwent rapid growth during the 1970s with the quick expansion of the oil industry, tourism and the Suez Canal, and it has continued to expand in subsequent decades.
The tourist sector is expanding rapidly, particularly along the Red Sea and Mediterranean coasts, despite sporadic terrorist activities of Islamic fundamentalists. Agriculture, which relies on irrigation from the Nile, employs one-third of the working population. Foreign aid, especially from the USA, is an important source of government funds.
Internet:
There are internet cafés in the main cities, including Cairo, Alexandria, Dahab and Luxor. Even small, more remote towns including Siwa will have at least one venue, usually in the market area. Connection is usually reliable. Tourists can also access the Internet in hotels, with in-room Wi-Fi available, though often at a costly price.
Media:
The Egyptian press is one of the most influential and widely read in the region, while Egyptian TV and the film industry supplies much of the Arab-speaking world with shows from its Media Production City. Press freedom is encouraged. Press laws which allow prison sentences for libel have encouraged self-censorship on sensitive issues.
Congratulations! You’ve finally secured a new job, and now you want to start off on the right foot. You want to be careful not to make any career-ending mistakes. So, what should you NEVER do when starting a new job?
Title1
You learned this in first grade, when the teacher began keeping track of tardies: Being on time matters. Factor in extra time if there’s traffic, construction, or other reasons to expect a delay.
Title 2
Before starting your job, talk with the hiring manager or human resources professional to make sure you understand what constitutes acceptable outfit for your new workplace. There’s nothing more embarrassing than showing up wearing something that doesn’t fly with your supervisors.
Title 3
Many companies require new employees to go through a training process before starting a new position. While it may be tempting to skip these sessions or treat them lightly, don’t do it. Even if your training managers won’t be your direct supervisors, they are watching you.
Title 4
No matter where you’re working, there are certain processes, tools, and forms that make up the standard operating procedures of your company. You may have been introduced to these through a very organized, systematic orientation, or you may feel like you’re expected to absorb them by osmosis. If you were formally informed, consider yourself fortunate, if not, don’t feel shortchanged or frustrated. Instead, take initiative and master the basics on your own.
Title 5
It’s understandable that you may need help or guidance during your first few weeks at a new job, and asking co-workers for assistance or just to answer questions can be perfectly acceptable. But remember, you were hired because managers believed in your ability to get the job done. Ask for help if you need it, but believe in yourself and prove that you can do the work yourself.
Title 6
Your employer isn’t paying you to chat with your girlfriend or even your kids’ babysitter. Make a personal policy of limiting personal phone calls and texts to your lunch break, except for emergencies.
Title 7
Most likely, you and your employer agreed to a certain salary during the hiring process. So don’t change your mind before you even show up at work. Don’t expect more money until you’ve worked long enough to prove your value to the employer.
Title 8
Of course you want to make a good impression as soon as you arrive at a new job, and show your new employer they made the right choice in hiring you. However, be cautious of suggesting new policies or strategies during your first few weeks, as it may not be the best way to demonstrate you are a team player. At first, take time to really understand and learn your job, then over time, you can make suggestions and changes as situations arise, and as your input and expertise is called upon.
Title 9
In a new job, there will always be a learning curve, and effective supervisors understand that. Inevitably, you’ll be asked to do something or expected to know something that you don’t yet know or know how to do. Rather than saying you can complete the task on your own, tell the truth and “don’t be afraid to say, ‘I don’t know,’
Title 10
You may be so eager to start your new job that you don’t want to stop and ask questions. But by skipping even the most basic questions, you are setting yourself up for failure.